---
title: 休谟问题的文章评审意见
author: 杨学志
date: 2024-03-01 10:03:41
source: https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/684700167
stats: {'voteup_count': 0, 'comment_count': 0}
---

文章被拒稿，但是给了详细的评审意见，特别是第二位评委。

我会详细地回复评审意见，需要时间。先贴出来，供大家参考。

Comments to the author:

Reviewer #1: This paper claims to have solved Hume's problem of induction using the theory of probability, in particular the theory of confidence intervals. The assumption is that since the theory of probability is a purely mathematical one, applying it as a model of our (scientific) reasoning gives a neat and essentially a priori solution.

However, while the mathematical theory of probability is a part of pure mathematics, using the concept of probability to say something about the world is not. The very core of the problem is that applying probability theory to real-world scientific and epistemic problems requires a justification which essentially boils down to having a solution/answer to Hume's problem.

Hence, the paper "solves" the problem of induction by using a tool whose use assumes that the problem of induction has been solved.

The second part of the paper contains some observations about the the problem of identity of objects of experience through time, and its relation to the feasibility of statistical reasoning.

The third part of the paper is speculative and presents some ideas about the demarcation criterion for science. This part is only loosely connected to the main topic of the paper, it is also very unclear and not argued for. The main idea is one of "probabilistic verification", which sounds like standard inductivism.

Overall, the paper does not do what it promises to do (i.e., solve Hume's problem), and is not written at the level of exposition and argumentation expected of scholarly publications. It also does not engage with any modern literature relating to its topic (compare, for instance, Howson's "Hume's Problem", where a "solution" that looks similar at first glance is proposed, but the argument is not clearly circular and ad hoc).

Reviewer #2: This is an extremely interesting topic. I hope that you will pursue it further. However, there is a lot of work to be done before submitting to a journal.

First, there are some historical points where you need to read further or better:

(1) P(H | E) is identical to Carnap 's measure of absolute confirmation, but Carnap 1962 distinguishes multiple concepts of confirmation. See the introduction in that book.

(2) Your explanation of Kant 's position either needs to be more detailed or cut. I recommend the latter, because Kant's ideas are no longer prominent in the philosophy of induction. Similarly, I don't see how Kant's answer to the problem of induction is "evasive" as you say in the Conclusion.

(3) The objection to falsificationism on page 3, beginning line 26, confuses the problem of induction with a general problem of scepticism. Since this general problem isn't answered by your favoured approach either, it's unfair (as well as irrelevant) to raise it as a problem for falsificationists.

(4) The distinction between physical probability and epistemic probability is not made, but this is important for transitioning from a claim about confidence levels/intervals to a claim about what we can believe. See Rudolf Carnap, "The Two Concept of Probability" 1945.

(5) Carnap's rule for induction (c*) is a generalisation of the Rule of Succession .

(6) "Such as astrology, which was rightly taken by Popper as an example of pseudoscience, DOES have falsifiability, and has in fact been tested and refuted." This is an article in itself! In general, discussing the Demarcation Problem AND the problem of induction in one paper is unnecessarily overambitious.

(7) Your criticism of the Rule of Succession is easily handled: simply add the past sunrises to the numerator and the denominator. Mathematically, this is just like beta distributions in modern Bayesian statistics . We have two parameters "a" and "b", determining a prior via a beta function B(a, b). The a parameter can be for the sun rising, b for the sun not rising. The Rule of Succession is equivalent to using a flat prior, so B(a, b) = B(1, 1). If one has background knowledge of past successes/failures, it is trivial in Bayesian statistics to bring them into the prior, e.g. change the hyperparameter a to 4.543 billion * 365 = 1,658,195,000,000. Thus, even ignoring the rest of our scientific background knowledge, the probability of sunrise tomorrow is extremely high according to Laplace's philosophy of science.

Second, there are important technical mistakes in your paper:

(1) "From a logical perspective, if a theory implies a specific observable statement e, verificationism asserts that "if e then h", which commits the fallacy of affirming the consequent."

- This is neither what verificationism asserts nor the fallacy of affirming the consequent. The same problem occurs for your description of falsificationism.

Crudely, the verificationist says, "When H and E are logically contingent, then {If H then E, E} is evidence for H." The falsificationist denies this and argues that the scientific method involves reasoning in the following way: "When H and E are logically contingent, then {If H then E, ¬E} is evidence against H."

(2) "When using the language of probability, a universal proposition is transformed into the probability of a singular proposition. For example, "all swans are white" is expressed in probability as "the probability that a swan is white is 100%"."

- This is not how universal generalisations are normally interpreted in logic or mathematics. For example, consider an event C1 = "F is G" in a continuous and uniform distribution. P(C1) = 0%, so P(¬C1) = 100%. However, it does not follow that "All F's are G's" is true, since events with a probability of 0% can occur.

Similarly, "All swans are white" can become more probable because of evidence that there are fewer swans, but this does not provide evidence that, given that something is a swan, it is probably white. This is one aspect of the Paradox of the Ravens. It shows how the probabilistic and universal hypotheses are different: there is some evidence that supports the universal hypothesis, but not the probabilistic hypothesis.

(3) The distinction between confidence and confidence levels is not made. A confidence level is a probability of an error. "Confidence" is a very ambiguous phrase. You do not mention confidence levels, leading to some confusing explanations, e.g. "given a width of the confidence interval, find a confidence interval that maximize the confidence."

Also on that point, confidence levels are not "maximized." The procedure in confidence interval estimation is (a) choose the confidence level alpha, (b) determine the width of the *narrowest* confidence interval whose long-run rate of error exceeds alpha, and (c) use the sample data for the parameter(s) to find that interval's values (which may actually be narrower than the interval found at stage (b) if the interval overlaps with a maximum/minimum parameter value).

(4) On p. 5, your discussion of the uniform distribution and confidence interval estimation is confused, in ways that would benefit from more reading in classical statistics. You say, "The uniform prior is used here to define confidence, which is a subjective criterion of evaluation."

- This would be philosophical unsatisfying if true: induction would be based on a subjective habit/preference/instinct, just as Hume suggested. However, it is not true. Confidence levels are determined by using the worst-case assumptions for the inductive inference. For example, if we have a binomial event like a coin toss, we consider the long-run rate of error given the assumption that the coin's probability of landing "heads" is 50%. You are right that this implies that the probability distribution is uniform. However, we don't actually believe that assumption: it's chosen because a 50-50 distribution for a binomial event is the worst-case scenario for induction, because it produces unrepresentative samples at the highest rate in the long-run. (Consider how many unrepresentative samples we'd get if the distribution was 100-0 or 0-100. This is an easy calculation!)

(5) "the confidence of 'the probability of feeding is greater than 99%'"

This is not the hypothesis that the chicken needs to make. In predicting that it will be fed, with no reason to think that today is different, the chicken just needs to estimate the confidence level for the event that it will be fed. Since N = 61, this confidence level will be over 95%.

However, I don't see this as a problem that a defender of induction needs to address. Confidence level estimation is a method for calculating random errors. The turkey's problem is that it is unaware of a systematic error. Everyone agrees that induction is fallible, so the mere possibility of a mistaken induction like the turkey's is not an issue for induction. Bertrand Russell was not being smart when he suggested that a chicken (in his original version) would have benefited from being more sophisticated about induction.

(6) Confidence interval estimation requires particular assumptions that you ignore. The first is that the mean of the parameter must exist, but this is not necessarily true. For example, a Cauchy or Landau distribution has no mean. The second is that the sample must be random. What exactly "random" means is a controversial issue in the philosophy of statistics: see my Suggested Reading section below for some good places to start learning more.

The random sample issue is one instance of a more general problem for using confidence intervals to measure the evidential strength in an induction. This problem is called the Problem of the Reference Class. Here are two examples:

(a) Suppose that you have estimated a confidence interval for whiteness among swans that is [0.99, 1). Note the half-closed interval. This seems to give you a reason to expect that the next swan you see will be white. But suppose that you also know that (0, 0.1] Australian swans are white and that the next swan you see will be an Australian swan.

You might think "That's easy! We know that all Australian swans are swans, so we use the narrower reference class. So I don't expect the next swan I see to be white, given that it's an Australian swan."

However, the next swan you see is also a member of the set {the next swan you see}. You know that the confidence interval for this reference class is [0, 1]. It's also the narrowest possible set in this context. So should you be totally uncertain that the next swan you see will be white?

(b) Suppose you have estimated two confidence intervals: the frequency of F among G's is [0.1, 0.2] and the frequency of F in J's is [0.8, 0.9]. However, you have not been able to esimate the frequency of F among things that are both G and J. How do you pick which confidence interval to use when predicting whether something that is G and J will be F? Or do you combine them some way? Bayesians "solve" this problem by assuming that we can always determine a full joint distribution for every event, but this is either conceding the issue to Hume (Subjective Bayesianism) or faces hard problems of justification ("Objective" Bayesianism).

Additionally, this sentence confused me: "The notion of identity assumes there is an invariant probability, which is the basis for our argument for all other propositions. It is a presupposition and cannot be proven because there is no more fundamental propositions to prove it."

- I don't see why this is a basis, nor why it does not need to be proven. It is your responsibility as a writer to be more clear.

Another issue:

"For those changes that cannot be mastered, the human approach is to ignore them and let them go."

- That response sounds lot like Hume's sceptical position: we cannot justify induction, but it is a habit we have.

Finally, it is important to improve the quality of your English, especially regarding key phrases. For example, you can say "Hume's problem of induction" or "the problem of induction," but not "the Hume's problem of induction."

--------------

I hope you will continue with this research area and start by reading more. Here are some suggestions, in order.

SUGGESTED READING

Statistics

- A good introduction aimed at philosophers is Henry E. Kyburg and Choh Man Teng, UNCERTAIN INFERENCE, 2001, Chapter 11.

- Look for a more proofs-based textbook than you seem to have used so far. At a minimum, it should RIGOROUSLY deduce the Central Limit Theorem, with all the premises clearly stated.

Problem of Induction

- David Stove - PROBABILITY AND HUME'S INDUCTIVE SCEPTICISM, 1973.

- Henry E. Kyburg - PROBABILITY AND INDUCTIVE LOGIC (chapter on various attempts to answer the Problem of Induction) 1970.

- David Stove - POPPER AND AFTER (second half of this book) 1982.

- Marc Lange - "Hume and the Problem of Induction" in THE HANDBOOK OF THE HISTORY OF LOGIC, 2011.

Combinatoric Justification of Induction (similar to the approach you are trying)

- Donald C. Williams - THE GROUND OF INDUCTION, 1947.

- David Stove - THE RATIONALITY OF INDUCTION, 1986.

- Patrick Maher - "A Hole in the Ground of Induction" 1996.

- Scott Campbell - "Fixing a Hole in the Ground of Induction" 2001.

- Scott Campbell and Jim Franklin - "Randomness and the Problem of Induction" 2004.

Some Interesting Contemporary Alternatives

- Samir Okasha - "Does Hume's Argument Against Induction Rest on a Quantifier-Shift Fallacy?" 2005

- Patrick Maher - "Explication of Inductive Probability" 2010

- John Norton - "A Material Dissolution of the Problem of Induction" 2014

---------

Personally, I would love the chance to re-read all these books and articles again for the first time. Reading them has been the most exciting thing in my life. I envy you!